[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Where ancient wisdom and
modern research converge,
divine science emerges.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Is DMT a portal to another
dimension, a key to unlocking
ancient knowledge?
Often referred to as
the spirit molecule,
DMT is unique for its profound,
near-death like experiences
that propel the mind into realms
of expanded consciousness.
This mystifying compound,
found in everything
from plants to
humans, consistently
evokes profound experiences,
setting it apart
from other psychedelics.
Could exploring
DMT offer insights
into our multidimensional
nature and unravel
the mysteries of
human consciousness
and our place in the cosmos?
>> DMT is the most powerful
psychedelic known on Earth.
And it's a fascinating
substance that may well be more
than a psychedelic drug.
>> When most people
speak of DMT,
they're primarily referring
to something called
N,N-dimethyltryptamine
or N,N-DMT.
It is one of the active
ingredients of ayahuasca,
consumed as a drink in
ceremonial situations.
The experience is very intense.
One will completely lose
touch with this reality
and are thrust into
another reality that
is very foreign and
alien with images
that are hyper colorful
and intensely meaningful.
>> One understanding of DMT is
that it's not a hallucinatory
substance.
But rather, it reorients
the neurotransmitters
to be receptive to a different
yet altogether real reality
that we're just not able to
perceive in our waking state,
kind of like a lucid dream where
your experience is so foreign.
And yet, you retain
your consciousness.
You maintain your
sense of self and ego.
And it's very common
among DMT users to say,
this was not a hallucination.
This was reality.
And it's similar each time
they take the same substance.
>> In the realm of DMT, two
primary variants stand out--
N,N-DMT and 5-MeO-DMT.
N,N-DMT Is renowned for
its capacity to facilitate
encounters with
interdimensional beings,
offering a unique
psychedelic experience.
Alternatively, 5-MeO-DMT,
closely associated
with the bufo alvarius
toad, is known
for inducing profound
ego dissolution
and spiritual awakenings.
Trained practitioners
must exercise caution
to safeguard these
delicate creatures
and their dwindling habitats,
ensuring their protection
and preservation.
Although these compounds
share some similarities,
it's essential to recognize
their distinct effects
and potential.
>> N,N-DMT is a molecule that
is found in the ayahuasca brew.
And that tends to be a
very visually stimulating
experience, where people
will see beings, encounter
other realms, whereas 5-MeO-DMT
is sourced organically
from a toad in the
Sonoran Desert.
And it is vaporized and inhaled.
And it is characterized
by a non-dual state
of consciousness.
So it induces this state of
oneness, where there aren't
other beings or other realms.
It is essentially
an experience where
the subject and the object
become one and the same.
Oftentimes, people will come
back from their experience
with 5-MeO and say, that
was it that, that was thing
that all religions
are pointing to.
I experienced God.
They may come back with this
realization that they are God
and that everything is God
and that this beautiful game
that we're playing as
humans is just that.
It's this game that
we get to play.
Beyond the game, beyond the
illusion of separateness,
there is this overarching
oneness that a lot of people
will describe as God.
>> At the top, there's
5-MeO, or the toad.
When you take that, you
feel like you just meet God.
It's the ultimate
psychedelic experience.
The next level below that
is what's called DMT.
One of the common
forms is Changa.
And with that, if
you are successful,
you feel like you break through
to this other world called
the DMT verse.
You go through a tunnel,
often as reported
by users of the
most vibrant colors
you can possibly imagine.
And then you are
in this space where
you may feel like the fabric of
the universe is being created.
There may or may not be
individuals that you see.
But the whole environment is
cursing with intelligence.
>> DMT or dimethyltryptamine
is present in most forms
of biological life on Earth.
While this is a fascinating
aspect of the compound,
the reasons for its
widespread presence
are not fully understood.
>> One of the curious things
about DMT is the abundance
of it in nature.
It's in most plants.
And it's widely regarded that
it's in the pineal gland.
And I think that's important
because when you take DMT,
it acts so fast that
you can't believe it.
And I think it's because when
you ingest DMT in some form,
it's activating the
DMT that's already
in your pineal gland, that's
already passed the blood brain
barrier.
And so that's why you feel this
immediate intense reaction.
Why it's so abundant
throughout Earth
and still relatively
unknown is a mystery to me.
Why it's there,
how it got there--
I think it's not an accident.
I think it's our ticket
once we transcend
to the level of sophistication
to understand it and use
it correctly to then
use it as a portal
to the ultimate reality
of the universe.
>> 5-MeO-DMT and N,N-DMT--
studies have shown that they
are released by the body
during moments of birth
and moments of death.
And so that's interesting
to me because they're
like an intermediary between
states of consciousness.
They're like a guide
that welcome us
into this realm of being human.
And then when the time
comes for us to die
and for us to go on into
whatever comes next,
they guide us into that
next stage of our journey.
I think it's fascinating
that they're already
present in the human
body and that they
play some significant role
in this transition of states
of consciousness.
>> Why is DMT the only
psychedelic drug that seems
to have taken up
residence in our brains?
The theory is that
it helps us cope
with such monumental
experiences that
are beyond the
normal pale of life,
sort of like a safety or a
buffer for these experiences
that are so intense.
>> One of the reasons why our
brain might produce DMT is
because it's a neuroprotectant,
meaning in hypoxic or low
oxygen environments,
such as cardiac arrest,
there may be a DMT dump, which
accounts for why there are
gamma spikes during
cardiac arrest.
And the DMT protects the neurons
from dying off prematurely.
That might be one of the reasons
why DMT is in our brain--
to actually protect the brain
against these low oxygen
environments.
>> Many scientists posit that
our perception of reality is
a construct of the brain, a kind
of controlled hallucination,
where our brain interprets
sensory data to create a model
of the world.
DMT experiences invite us
to reconsider and question
the very structure and nature
of our everyday perception.
>> The 2019 study that came out
of University of Michigan that
Jon Dean studied in rats how
they produce endogenous DMT,
we came to find that the brain
produces DMT all the time.
So we have to start asking
why is it being produced all
the time and in levels
comparable to serotonin,
dopamine, and norepinephrine.
These are functional
neurotransmitters.
If DMT is being produced around
the clock in comparable levels,
one could theorize that we are
constantly microdosing on DMT--
all of us at all times.
So could this reality be
a shared hallucination?
There is a basis for
this idea that we
are living in a projected,
simulated reality
from the consciousness
of all people,
meaning this is a
shared hallucination.
Actually, the most
recent Nobel Prize winner
disproved local reality, meaning
that when nobody is observing
something like a table
or a chair, that object
does not exist anymore.
So much of what we would call
a part of our reality actually
might be a shared hallucination.
>> Most people, unfamiliar
with DMT's effects,
might find a purely biological
explanation sufficient.
Yet, the DMT experience often
triggers a fundamental paradigm
shift.
DMT's capacity to induce
extraordinary visions
challenges the notion of
its mere biological presence
in nature.
Could it instead be a portal
to spiritually profound realms,
suggesting a reality far more
intricate than we perceive?
>> When someone smokes DMT,
the effects are very quick.
It's usually people will
take a few inhalations
of the medicine.
And before they're done
with the first inhalation,
the world is starting to change
and transform around them.
And then the person lays down.
And there's a space
of like elevation.
Everything feels
like it's rising.
Sound will elevate.
Colors will start to unfold.
And then they're thrust
into another realm.
And the space itself
is-- sometimes,
people describe it as
like being in a large dome
or in an alien landscape or
connecting with ancestors
or entities from another space.
And it can feel
very overwhelming
because of the amount of
stimulation that's occurring--
hyper vivid colors,
sounds, music changes,
the duration of the
peak of the journey
is typically four
to seven minutes.
People might move
around a lot or unwind
as they release and clear old
stuckness in their bodies.
[SHIVERING]
>> Stay with it.
Just as you start to orient
to it, within a few minutes,
you start to come back out of
it and reconnect to the body
and become more conscious
of this consensus space.
>> There's points where I could
feel the experience move itself
from my visual perspective and
put itself kind of directly
into my body and in my mind.
So it was more about
downloads and the feeling
of other entities being around--
all around and getting certain
bits and pieces of information
from them.
And then they just kind of
like let me kind of coast
back down back here.
>> Not long after that,
you're back to normal reality,
completely sober but just have
had a sometimes life-changing
experience.
>> Within the
psychedelic ecosystem,
experiences often align
closely with personal traumas
or current life events.
In the case of N, N-DMT,
a notable number of users
share reports of
encountering similar entities
and having comparable
experiences.
>> DMT seems to
transport you to another,
very structured reality,
meaning something gave it that
structure.
And there are certain
entities or beings
that we connect to only on DMT.
>> You encountered beings
in this experience?
>> Their eyes were very--
they were large.
But they kind of angled more.
And they were slanted back more.
The head was an odd elongation.
Actually, there
was a few instances
where I noticed that
there was no mouth.
>> So why is there this chemical
inside the brain in that,
let's say, reality channel,
you can connect with these very
highly intelligent beings.
You can't just say
that DMT is only there
as an anti-inflammatory
and a neuroprotective.
Because if you do a breathing
technique that upregulates DMT
and you're now communicating
with pan dimensional entities,
God wouldn't have done
that for no reason.
>> One of the ways that DMT is
qualitatively different than
other psychedelics and
in particular N,N-DMT,
which is my favorite, is
how similar the reports
of experiences that people
have, including my own.
Whether you have a different
people in the same room doing
DMT at the same time,
they may come back
saying that they've
seen the same entities.
It can be that
level of specificity
but the same overall
type of experience.
When you do it
the next time, you
may feel like you're seeing
the same intelligence again.
You're just popping
by a little cameo
role on that ever
present universe, which
is very different than,
say, taking mushrooms.
>> Oftentimes, when people
take these medicines together,
they're done in a ceremonial
context and spiritual
communities with a particular
community intention.
And so it's not uncommon
at all for people
to experience the same
beings coming into the space
or something that's very similar
to other people's experiences.
And so it does bring up
questions of, What is reality?
And it's just bigger
than what we think it is.
>> Alternatively, 5-MeO
intensifies the focus
on internal bodily processes.
Trauma and somatic experts
view such experiences
as potential pathways to
unlocking repressed emotions
or memories.
It is suggested that the somatic
amplification offered by 5-MeO
may present opportunities
for emotional release
and nervous system reset.
>> Whether someone's coming
to heal a significant trauma
in their lives, whether it's
a combat veteran or someone
who's struggling with addiction,
the medicine will meet us where
we are.
And it will give us
whatever it is that we need.
What's consistent
is that peak state
of oneness, where, again,
the mind is turned off,
essentially.
It's like a state of,
again, non-duality,
where there is no mind.
There is no
subject-object narrative.
And when the mind is
turned off, the body
has this opportunity to release.
What it's releasing
is trauma that's
been accumulated for a lifetime,
perhaps for many lifetimes.
A lot of people will come
back from the experience
and say that they
encountered ancestors
and that they were releasing
ancestral traumas that
have been passed down from
generation to generation.
>> In 2006, computer scientist
and researcher Marko A.
Rodriguez formulated an
intriguing proposal--
to determine the
reality of entities
encountered during
DMT experiences
by asking them to factorize
large numbers into primes.
This concept was intended to
explore the tangible reality
of these entities, frequently
reported in DMT induced states
by involving them in a
sophisticated mathematical
challenge.
>> Marko Rodriguez has proposed
in a scientific paper one
experiencer asking an entity
to factor a large prime number,
which the human couldn't do, but
then another experiencer going
in and contacting the same
entity and bringing back that
answer.
That would indicate
both some type
of superhuman intelligence,
almost like a Rupert Sheldrake
morphogenetic field that's
accessible to different people,
transmitting
verifiable information.
>> There's a couple of things
that are being proposed on how
to test the objective
reality of these entities.
And one would be to, Can we
retrieve information from them
that we wouldn't possibly
be able to know, like a math
solution?
Another would be to put two
people into the experience
and see if they have
similar experiences
with the same entities.
>> Envision a method
to harness DMT's power,
enabling extended exploration
of the universe and prolonged
encounters with
interdimensional beings.
At Imperial College
London, researchers
are developing such a technique,
named Extended-State DMT.
It involves administering
DMT intravenously,
much like anesthesia, opening
new avenues in understanding
consciousness and the cosmos.
>> In Extended-State DMT,
this would take what would be
the craziest 15-minute
psychedelic experience
of your life and extends it
theoretically as long as you
have the DMT.
With an infusion,
there's a loading dose
to get you blasted
through this veil that
seems to happen in DMT.
When people say I broke
through to the other side,
that's breaking
through this veil.
The loading dose brings
you past that point.
And then the maintenance
dose keeps you
in the peak DMT state.
>> And so there are a lot of
things that people are trying
to do with that, such as people
try to do with people having
lucid dreams--
to communicate with the people
while they're in the DMT state
and to ask them, to
relate to them real time
what they're experiencing.
And for me, that introduces the
possibility of a conversation
with the entities
they see there to try
to bring back verifiable,
objective evidence
of the reality of
these encounters
as measured by science.
>> And this machine can be
programmed at different levels
of dosages.
And you can also program
intensity and duration.
And if there was a
crisis or a struggle,
somebody was in a space that
was uncomfortable to them,
you can actually
turn the machine off.
And it would bring
them right back.
And they've done
this in the studies
at the Imperial
College of London,
where they've done 30
minute extended state
journeys with DMT.
And then theoretically,
it could be
several hours or even longer.
>> Why would places like Johns
Hopkins and Imperial College
London go to this route to say,
we need to check if the DMT
state is actually inhabited
with these entities.
I believe it's
because we are getting
to a point of global catastrophe
and existential risk, where we
need outside-the-box thinking.
So if you can keep
somebody in the DMT state
long enough to where they
can ask relevant questions,
pass the threshold back
into baseline consciousness,
then we may be able to get
unconventional wisdom back
into this world, where
it can be put into use
so we can avoid maybe some of
the biggest apocalyptic events
that we're facing right now.
>> In the realms
accessed via DMT,
there is potential to uncover
answers to long standing
mysteries.
J. Allen Hynek, an American
astronomer and ufologist,
deeply involved with the
US Air Force's UFO Studies,
including Project Blue Book,
left many of his questions
unanswered.
These queries have
driven his son
Paul Hynek to seek solutions,
potentially through DMT
research.
>> He felt that the
extraterrestrial hypothesis
didn't explain the
whole phenomenon.
So he leaned, like
Jacques Vallée and others,
to interdimensional.
So my friend told me about the
book "Alien Information Theory"
by Andrew Gallimore, which
states that DMT is likely
a portal to another dimension.
So I thought,
well, look, if that
is a ticket to another
dimension and my father thinks
UFOs might be another
dimension, I need to go there.
So I did.
And in that very
first DMT experience,
I felt this presence, this
intelligence all around me.
And I asked, Are you what we
perceive to be UFOs and aliens?
And I felt trillions of miles
of synapses and neurons firing.
And the answer came down to me.
We can't explain in a way
that you would understand.
And my first thought
was, well, that's not no.
And then I thought, well, if
there is this connective tissue
between UFOs and DMT and maybe
ghosts and other phenomena,
yeah, I could see how that
would be well beyond my ability
to understand.
And so I felt emboldened.
I'm on the right track here.
I've had confirmation
from what seems
to be this universal
intelligence that there
is a link between what we
altogether too often silo
as different phenomena.
>> Altered states of
consciousness through
the exploration of breath are
gaining attention in scientific
research.
Researchers are delving into how
methods like Wim Hof breathing
might naturally influence
the brain's chemistry
and its potential
to induce states
akin to psychedelic experiences.
>> John Chavez from DMT
Quest, he brought a Wim Hof
practitioner into the lab,
hooked him up to an EEG,
and had him do this
Wim Hof breathing,
which is belly breathing.
It's kind of like
hyperventilating
for 75 breaths--
to see whether there are
gamma spikes in the brainwaves
because gamma
doesn't happen often.
And usually, when gamma
spikes are noticed,
this is either near cardiac
arrest or it's near death
experiences or it is
in didgeridoo playing.
It's in meditation.
Or it's in psychedelic
experiences.
So when you upregulate
DMT in the brain,
you would notice gamma.
John Chavez right there showed
there is more room for study.
We need to find out whether
the Wim Hof breathing does
upregulate DMT because that
means your breath is one
of the prime ways that you
can upregulate DMT and have
a mystical experience
without ingesting anything.
I just made a film
with Aubrey Marcus,
where he went into a
dark room for seven days.
By day three, the pineal gland
stopped producing melatonin.
And there are theories that
when melatonin is used up,
it starts producing
pinoline, which
would allow for DMT to
build up inside the brain
without getting metabolized
and broken down.
So now we have to ask ourselves,
does dark upregulate DMT?
Does breath upregulate DMT?
And I do believe our
ancestors were doing this.
>> The varied experience is
triggered by different types
of DMT, highlights its
appeal to a wide audience,
from those seeking profound
healing to those exploring
personal and scientific realms.
Given its extensive
influence, who
is the ideal candidate
for DMT experiences?
And in what ways can it meet
various needs and goals?
>> So there's two
paths with DMT,
like those who do
need real healing,
both physical healing and
psychological healing.
It's good for depression
and anxiety as well.
But it's not just for healing
it's also for exploration.
Scientists can use it for
creative problem solving.
I think the applications are
across the board when it comes
to working with this medicine.
>> While DMT presents a spectrum
of possibilities for healing
and exploration, it's crucial to
approach its use with awareness
and caution.
>> I think it's always important
to be aware of the potential
that there could
be adverse effects.
These adverse effects or
challenging experiences
can either be
avoided or supported
in ways where we can actually
turn it into a really
valuable experience.
These challenging
experiences are valuable
and that there are
silver linings.
It's also a matter of having
a guide or a practitioner
or an integrationist
who can support us
in a healthy way
through the experience
and through the
integration process
because, ultimately, every
challenging experience presents
an opportunity to grow.
>> Within the complex realm
of DMT's varied effects lies
the profound potential of
mindful psychedelic exploration
for personal and
societal evolution.
>> We helped co-create that.
We helped change the laws, with
the intention that we could use
these medicines to not only
heal physical injury or trauma
and life experience but
heal collective trauma
and maybe help people
think more clearly
so that they can live their
lives to their fullest
potential and then to bring
back possible solutions
to real, global struggles
that we're holding.
But I truly believe
that that's possible.
That's why I'm doing this work.
>> Medicine has taught
me that all is well.
It has given me a glimpse
into eternity, into divinity,
into a place or a
state of being where
there is no right and wrong.
>> If you take DMT and you have
this breakthrough experience,
I'm quite sure it will be
the most profound experience
of your life, almost
certainly enjoyable,
and something that will change
the way you relate to reality.
>> The DMT journey
transcends imagination,
breaking boundaries to reveal
new horizons of infinite
possibilities.
These explorations
have the potential
to transform one's sense of
self and deepen connections
with the universe, highlighting
the boundless possibilities
that lie within our reach.
Join us for more episodes
on Divine Science,
where we continue exploring the
crossroads of modern research
and ancient wisdom.